Abstract: 

As per the statistics, Earth includes 14.9 billion hectares of land, 71% of it is habitable – the other 29% is either covered by ice and glaciers, or is barren land such as deserts, salt flats, or dunes. 10000 years ago, 57% of the habitable land, approximately 6 billion hectares, was covered with forest areas. In the 21st century, ⅓ of that 6 billion hectares of land is deforested for urban development and agricultural purposes. Machine Learning approaches show the ability to predict future results by training the machine on the past and present outcomes. This research paper aims to study the future land use pattern by testing the model on real time images from Google Earth Engine. The paper uses transfer learning models to predict land usage in the next 50 years. The researchers identified the problem of increasing deforestation patterns in many areas across the world, so therefore the predicted results can be used to meet the sustainable development goals. A recent study has shown that semi-supervised domain adaptation in producing land cover maps outperforms existing methods. The study used satellite imagery and machine learning to analyze land cover changes. The convolutional neural network results were achieved with efficient memory usage. The dataset for land use classification achieved high accuracy. Mitigation strategies to increase green spaces and reduce impermeable surfaces are important due to increased urbanization and urban heat island effects. Population growth and development have led to increased land use/land cover change. Rapid urbanization over the world’s dense urban centers causes an enormous change in the land use land cover phenomena. The study compares machine learning algorithms for land use classification using satellite data. Future simulations predict significant changes in forest, shrub land, and crop land.
                                Introduction:


Our Earth’s Biosphere includes three major components, one of them is the Lithosphere. Many plants and animals live on the terrestrial part of the Earth, especially the forested land. But In this modern era, the importance of forested land is misunderstood to a great extent. Deforestation is not a new problem in this world, it has been encountered since a long time but all the individuals have to take hold to ensure proper land usage. The humans are using the land for agricultural purposes or living concerns which leads to turning the houses of many animal species into malls and parks used by human beings. The extinction of many species can also be seen due to deforestation in many areas across the globe. The agricultural land is also misused by using lots and lots of chemicals which makes it incapable for future vegetation on that land. To maintain the balance in the atmosphere, the growing deforestation rates need to be minimized as soon as possible. The change in land use patterns adversely affects the biosphere. The research paper uses  the urbanization statistics in a particular area over a period of time and analyzes the future trend.
This study introduces a novel approach to land cover mapping, utilizing automatic multi-class land segmentation based on a convolutional neural network. With the availability of satellite image data, it provides valuable insights into the impact of land use land cover changes on urban thermal variance and land surface temperature. Machine learning algorithms are employed to predict these impacts. The research utilizes high-resolution satellite imagery to analyze land use land cover changes, seasonal land surface temperature, and the urban thermal variance index. This analysis is crucial for studying global phenomena and is facilitated by the Google Earth Engine (GEE) cloud-based platform, which integrates satellite imagery and machine learning methods. The study aims to understand and simulate the intensifying global land use land cover changes.
